Your time here. We have only 20 minutes with you.
Oh.
And we want to really focus on intellectual property and-
Right
... copyright legislation.
So if you would like to start with some opening remarks, if you keep them quite
brief so that members get enough time to ask questions, that would be great.
Great. Thank you. So Chair, members of the committee, thanks for the opportunity to
speak today.
I'll start off maybe with why this conversation matters to us.
So for us, intellectual property is how New Zealand turns great science into
real-world impact. And I think as every time I've been to a select committee, we've
brought some of that real-world impact with us-
That'd be great
... to show you. So yeah, we knew you'd expect morning tea, so we've brought some
apples for you, some that are not- ... commercially available.
So for us, it's not theory, it's actually what we do every day.
And I love the fact that we're having select committee discussions around
intellectual property. I think it's great, and it's always timely.
For us, that's where great ideas meet real-world impact and create value for New
Zealand,
and in a lot of cases beyond that.
So I'll give a couple of practical views of how IP works for us on the ground.
And as I said, we've brought some intellectual property with us
today. Because while IP has legal frameworks, patents,
plant variety rights, great innovation, and complex
multi-jurisdictional alignment, it's quite often something you can
hold, and in this case, eat. So I'll give you a bit of a sense of
scale. So over the last decade, for the Bioeconomy Sciences Institute, our
royalty revenues
have grown from around 27 million to this year forecast just over $100 million.
That makes us the largest royalties earner in the country.
Great for us as an organization, that's all reinvested in science.
But actually, the thing that's great for New Zealand is those royalties only come
off the back of commercial success.
So that's one of the things we really like about the royalties.
So when you think of us, obviously we've had flat to declining government
investment, so this is a way to keep investment going back into science,
which is excellent. So look, our model is quite simple but really
deliberate. We invest in long-term science, we develop
intellectual property, we partner with industry incubators, we create
new products, in some cases, companies, generate royalties, equity, and
returns. And then in our case, reinvest those back into the next generation
of the same thing. So we do it across a range of areas,
licensing, joint ventures, startups,
and we've got a few examples of research for equity models as well.
So one of the things we quite enjoy is the flexibility that
we have to be able to take different approaches because there's no
one-size-fits-all for us.
So historically,
in our case, we've had a lot of commercialization that's been science sort of push,
which is great. We think there's absolutely a place for that to continue, but we
are starting to evolve where we're increasingly balancing that towards being more
market pull as well. So what are the things people are asking for?
What are the things industry investors, entrepreneurs are asking for?
How does science connect in with that to make their great ideas even better and
more sticky?
So the idea is to sort of move from or alongside sort
of saying, "What can we do with our sciences?
What problems does the world need solved, and how can our science help?"
So, one of the things, I guess, as we talk around things like policy, and I've
touched on this already, is just cautioning on making
things too rigid.
So as I said, the flexibility that we've had has been excellent.
We've had everything from
spin-outs, research for equity. We've had spin-outs that we've kept
equity, sort of been on the cap table for. We've had spin-outs where we haven't.
We've had spin-outs where founders have gone out of the institute
into the new startup. We've had ones where they haven't.
All of those have worked well for us.
And when you look at intellectual property, there's quite a spectrum.
So if you think of some of the shorter cycle innovation, a
new software tool, a new device,
they're quite often built by quite a discrete team, a few people, that rolls
out. Then you look at the apples that we'll share in a
second. Those are 15, 20, 25-year breeding
programs with potentially 50 people involved.
Then there's post-harvest support, pest and pathogen management, and sometimes
support in market. So if we apply the rules to both, we run the risk of actually
creating some challenges. So
Roger, if you can
get that apple out somehow.
Okay.
So what you're seeing here is intellectual property in the flesh.
These are not commercial.
So I know whenever I've come to select committee before, people have sort of said,
"What's the next generation?" I think, Fangie, you've asked that a few times.
This is the next generation. These are red-fleshed apples.
Oh.
These are not commercial. We've purposely taken the seeds out because-
Yeah
... IP.
It's not that we don't trust you, but-
But we don't trust you.
But intellectual property needs to be protected.
So these are two different types. They're in train.
You might have seen we launched alongside a partner last year, Fizz apple, which is
also a red-fleshed apple.
So for us, we've developed a DNA marker that allows baby seedlings
to be tested early, which means, in our case, 100% of those trees
planted in our red flesh breeding programs are red flesh types, because
it's not always the way. So even if you planted the seed, there's no guarantee
you'd actually get that apple.
So for us, if you look at the history, 1998, we did the first
generation of crosses for a red-fleshed apple.
Second generation in 2004, third generation in 2011,
and then last year launched Fizz alongside a partner.
These are the next ones that are coming through.
Why red-fleshed? High in anthocyanins, so
antioxidants. Also good novelty, and hopefully as you're
tasting as they go around-
Yeah. Look good
... they taste good,
which is quite important for food that you eat.
Yeah
So, last year was the first planting, so about 10 tons were produced
last year of the Fizz. About 54 tons expected this year from Hawke's
Bay and Nelson.
So this is intellectual property coming to life,
but with a lot of people involved. So behind this is genetics, plant
variety rights, trademarks, global licensing agreements.
So in our case, for a lot of things, it's not one invention, it's a layered system
of IP. It only works because we've had long-term investment, stable
ownership, and flexible commercial models.
So we see this right across what we do.
So plant varieties, as we've touched on,
small
number of cultivars can generate large returns for New Zealand over decades.
And then we have startups like Sentien Bio that's just had a good capital raise
recently, with 15 years of research turned into a venture-backed
company. The founder went along with that.
It's actually still housed in our Mount Albert facility, so we're closely connected
into it, and we still sit on the cap table for it.
We've got other ones like Calocurb,
which is using
hops extract to help with diet sort of suppression,
so help with weight loss,
to compete with things like Ozempic, but more naturally.
So in that case, we have patents, trademarks, clinical science, and research for
equity that we all connect into that.
So I guess one of the things we're really proud of is that we're already driving
towards that balance that's being talked about.
So the ability, in some cases, for the scientist
to actually go out and commercialize their IP, and in the other cases where there's
a big group of people, for that IP to be commercialized and that royalty revenue to
come back in and actually fund future science.
So that's a big part of what we do.
So for us, I guess it's really
maintaining that flexibility, that ability to be part of that.
So probably three sort of key messages.
We do have a system that works pretty well today.
And I think with the merger of the BSI,
the ability for us to take the learnings from one into the four that have come
together is really quite strong. There's clear value.
There's billions of dollars. You might have seen recently, Envy Apple is now a
billion-dollar global apple variety developed out of a CRI.
And the second one is the strength of that system is its flexibility.
So trying to not have one size fits all and constrain things.
And thirdly, for us, opportunity is to sort of just make sure
we strengthen that balance with the right settings so ultimately we create more
companies, more impact, and more investment over time.
So in our case, intellectual property isn't just something we manage, it's
something that builds New Zealand's future, and in our case, also pretty good
apples. So thank you, and happy to take any questions.
Thank you. Your intellectual property does taste real.
Probably, that's always important when it's food.
And first question from Dr. David Wilson.
That was really well done.
You've said all the right things for me.
Good start.
Market lead and market pull rather than science push, and trying to bring those two
things together. That's fantastic.
Just interested in a couple of the mechanisms here because, in terms of product
development, business development, that sort of thing, IP on one hand is actually
protecting something.
Correct.
And on the other hand, we also talked about
research in exchange for equity,
and I'm interested in the mechanism for that and how that's working.
And also, if we're protecting IP,
how do we actually encourage tech fusion
across our system in New Zealand and still protect it?
Yeah, so there's probably two parts to that.
Maybe if I touch on the research for equity bit, and Richard, if you want to talk
about
how we still allow sharing of knowledge without losing the IP,
if there's anything to add.
Mm-hmm.
So, maybe a good example of research for equity, I don't think I'll be
sharing anything that's too confidential. So Calocurb is a great example.
Calocurb was designed out of the science system.
It was taking amarinate, which is a bitter extract from hops,
and finding that that did have appetite suppressant properties.
It goes in a capsule. It's not something you can eat. It's a bitter extract. Very.
And so we said we wouldn't be the right people to take that to market.
We put that out, and someone picked that up.
That then became the company that is Calocurb.
We had a small royalty arrangement as part of that, and they said, "Actually,
we really value the work you can do in clinical science linked to this.
We've got some funding,
so we can pay for some of the work, but actually, would you be interested in doing
research for equity at the same time?" So we said, "Great, we'll take some of the
cash back in, but then we'll also co-invest with some of
our own people, and do the clinical research." We've actually got someone who
speaks at international conferences alongside their chief executive
still today. And we own, I think it's technically 4.9% or
thereabouts of that company, which is the research for equity. So.
It's kind of almost passive.
Yeah, correct. Yeah. So we're
on the cap table because we believe in the product and we believe it's something
that can come back. So we look at all those on a case-by-case basis, and we've got
another one, which I can't share the details of, but we've been approached from
someone that we didn't start the IP.
They've started something and they've gone, "Actually, we think you could really
help us supercharge this. Would you be interested in doing more?"
And take a research for equity position, which we're exploring today.
Richard, do you want to talk about how we protect IP and still connect in?
Sure. So,
obviously our researchers and we want to disseminate information where that's
appropriate as widely as possible, for a number of reasons.
The main one is for the individual reputation of the researchers, but also the
organization as a whole, so we attract more business and collaborations
in. So we have to balance that when knowledge is purposefully
shared, like through publications or any other kind of mechanism.
So we have a process where both the science leadership and
also commercial make those decisions about which pieces of information are best
shared widely, which others are more appropriate for protection and IP.
So that's a constant process.
Supplementary.
New Zealand has got a bit of a problem, hasn't it, in terms of
keeping and owning our specializations and intellectual property because
we grow these firms, and they leave, or they get bought.
And as a result, I think over the last 20, 30, even 50
years, we've had a bit of a hollowing out.
So
if we're looking at our whole scale ofBusinesses,
the medium-sized ones, it's like hollowed out.
We've got lots of smalls, we've got a few bigs-
Yep
... and not as many mediums. And I'm really interested in
the stickiness of those medium-sized enterprises for the New Zealand
economy. So we own them, and we turn them into large businesses.
Yeah, look,
one probably good thing I'd say is there's been a group of us that have been
connecting for, I don't know, five or six months now,
trying to exactly discuss this challenge.
How do we get, not just startup investment in, but that investment that gets you
through the valley of death,
and gets something started? Obviously,
New Zealand,
we do exceptionally well on the global stage, but we're small.
Our consumer base is small, right?
And so the opportunity to actually grow companies is quite often international.
But obviously, we'd like them to still be based in New Zealand or directed out of
New Zealand.
So how we do that, how we bring investment into New Zealand,
and actually recognize that New Zealand is the right place to continue to grow
these things is definitely a challenge.
I don't think we've got the answer,
but it is something we're trying to work alongside the system to say, "How do we do
this?" Things like apples and kiwifruit and some of those areas are quite
different because we do have a natural advantage.
We grow exceptionally good primary production in New Zealand.
And so the IP for those does both stay here and move around the world.
So Envy, Peter might know the number, but I think it's 60% of Envy or more
planting is international, 40% locally, but the IP is still
held locally. It's controlled.
Okay. You had a question?
Oh, thank you.
Thanks for being with us. I have a question about our international
arrangements, particularly the UK and European trade deals, which
include, for New Zealand, some obligations around our
food system and the IP within it, and regional indicators.
How are we progressing those obligations
domestically for our exporters? What's your role in working with exporters to
understand those things and our IP on the world stage for some of those
plants that we hold dear to ourselves, like Manuka?
What's your role in making sure that we uphold our international
obligations, but also get the best deal for Kiwis?
Yeah, great question. I can maybe lean into some of that.
So,
one of the good things about things like plant varieties rights is there's
generally a global approach to those, so they're filed in multiple countries,
which helps. And,
effectively a patent for plants, at the risk of really oversimplifying it.
So the ability to protect those, you've seen in China, for example,
where things have been pulled back out as a result of illegal plantings.
If you look at the, it might be a sensitive topic at the moment, but the India Free
Trade Agreement, which we're in favor of,
that also sort of talks around the opportunities for us to help
improve kiwifruit quality in India.
That's not about us necessarily planting our varieties there.
If Zespri want to do that over time, we'd support them, but that's a market-facing
decision. From a science perspective, we think we can help move people out of
poverty by helping with quality, with pest and pathogen management,
with productivity. So those are the kinds of things that we work quite strongly in.
Well, I used to be in the dairy industry, and it was the same with the support we
gave
to some of the Southeast
Asian countries on dairy. So it wasn't around how do we
remove the need for New Zealand dairy, it was how do we help support local
production at the same time, while recognizing the role of New Zealand in there.
So New Zealand's got a pretty good reputation globally on working
with others, and MFAT in particular, if I can call them out, do an exceptionally
good job of connecting in in a non-competitive way.
And we've had a lot of experience working overseas with people.
But we haven't run into any, at least from a science perspective, any challenges
on meeting any of those obligations, and we always sort of partner alongside the
New Zealand companies to make sure we're not in conflict.
We wouldn't go chasing revenue
that isn't aligned with the best interests of New Zealand.
Ruben Davidson. Thank you. And thank you for the apples.
We always like red things.
Choose the color.
Blue one.
And can it be noted that the majority here did?
But,
coming back to, you talked in the beginning about
flexibility, and flexibility is sometimes easier when you have
certainty around the parameters.
So there was a
review into copyright,
updating our copyright legislation that's
stalled somewhat. But what
are the top priorities for you that we should be looking at in that space?
Yeah, we don't do a lot in copyright per se in our space.
We'd probably do more in trademark connections.
So,
to give you an example, Envy as an apple, has a plant variety right
that at some stage will expire, but the brand won't.
And so actually having that protection of the brand when people go, "Oh, this is an
Envy apple. It's grown a certain way. It tastes a certain way.
I know the quality of it because that's what I've been bought." And someone else
has to go, "Hey, here's our apple that's really similar to Envy.
It's a copy." But it's not, and they've got to call it Ruben's Apples or whatever
it is.
It doesn't have that same cut-through.
And so that's one of the things we've been working alongside a lot of our customers
and partners on, is how we support that whole end-to-end value
chain of the brand as well as the product.
So that's everything. We're quite fortunate as an organization where we're one
of the few in the world, certainly of our scale, that goes from kind of
pre-pre-farm gate right through to in-market.
So we support growing offshore. We do a lot of work on
quality, on productivity, on work through supply chain, on pest and pathogen
management, including in some different countries, as things are growing around the
world, and that's all about that brand reputation.
Yeah. So I can add to that. Just one more point, I think
also important to us across all these types of intellectual property, trademarks,
copyright, PBRs, patents, is syncing
up with international legislation, where it really gets
sticky for us because we export so much.
Actually, having those patent laws or PBR laws-
Mm
... in sync with each other is very, very important.
Really important.
Because we have to not only deal with the laws that are here, but make
sure that our products actually comply and with the
laws in the markets that we're selling to, because that's the way that intellectual
property works. So, that's really, really important.
So the more that
this group can help synchronize those intellectual
property laws, the better.
Mm.
And when we fall behind or out of sync, as we were with the PBR
legislation, we were behind. Getting it back in line is really important
for us and our products.
Yeah. Okay. Go to Dr. Vanessa Veitch.
Thank you very much.
So previously, when we've had you for review
briefings and other things, we've discussed the role of
AI in science. Do you see any challenges in terms of
intellectual property within the work streams that you have,
around intellectual property?
Richard? Because-
Hello. I know, yeah. That's why I threw to you.
More apples.
Yeah.
We were fortunate enough to be shortlisted on the recent
artificial intelligence hunt for a provider for an AI
platform to New Zealand.
So we're very proud around that. I think AI is always going to be a double-edged
sword,
and it's going to supercharge a lot of our research.
It's going to give us insights, obviously, with all the data being able to be fed
into that that we'd never had before.
But at the same time, it does cause issues, especially if we're
sharing data locally, internationally.
There's the
potential for leakage of information that might not be appropriate, whether it's
personal, commercial, or whatever.
So, absolutely, I think we're all slowly
moving through this with our eyes fully open in terms of what the
opportunities are, as well as what the pitfalls might be.
Yeah.
Yeah, and I think the opportunity for it to speed up things is probably real.
The one that maybe you didn't specifically ask, but the one we're probably keeping
more of an eye on is gene technology around the world.
So that's the one that we really do risk in New Zealand falling behind on.
Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah.
A very quick final from Hon. Williams. A very quick question.
Oh, right. We-
Bring us home.
It went so fast, because, look, it's a question about I would like us to say
something sensible when we report on to the House on this topic of food systems.
Thinking not about your export markets, but in the domestic market here in New
Zealand, the role of intellectual property in our food system.
What is your reflection on whether it's resulting in New Zealanders having fresh,
healthy kai that they can afford?
Yeah, look, we can probably only answer from a science-
Yep
... perspective. So from our perspective, we want to
see people having fresh, healthy food, and I think that's one of the things that
New Zealand does exceptionally well.
Whether it's affordable or not, I guess the role we play in that is how do we
increase productivity? How do we reduce loss?
How do we get more out of a hectare of land that doesn't create more
damage to the land as part of that? So that's really where we focus, but we
don't do the pricing. We don't do any of that.
We spend a lot of time, really, in that background of how do we make it more
affordable? How do we use less chemicals?
How do we protect from pests and pathogens?
How much are we doing of that?
So we will-
Huge. That's a big part of our work, yeah.
Yeah. We can decide if we want to send some written questions later on.
So we are running out of time. I was really tempted to say that why this apple is
not red all through, but after Robin's question, I'm not going to do it.
No, but there's a good reason for that.
I was hoping someone would ask, because if they're red all the way through, they
don't quite taste the same.
Oh.
And so the anthocyanin is well good for you, can also create some other things.
So that's a good balance.
Just has to be majority red.
That's great. Thank you so much to all of you for your time and for
answering these questions. Thank you.
No problem. Thank you.
Thank you.
Always enjoy these.
Great.